in preparation of its centennial the
Pittock mansion is going through a 1.1 3
million dollar renovation on its
exterior welcome to Comcast newsmakers
I'm Ken ACK I'm going to find out more
about what's going on
we welcome Marta Bowness she is the
executive director of the Pittock
mansion Society thanks for being with us
I mention exterior renovation what
exactly is being done we are repairing
the four terraces so three of the four
of them are leaking okay and there's
they're leaking so badly that there's
water intrusion on the inside yes into
the basement the music room and above
the main stair all right we're taking a
look at well it's covered right now but
we're taking a look at the back of the
Pittock mansion are there terraces
around front yes let's take a look at
what's being done let's go over there
okay Mart I know four terraces are being
renovated including the one we just saw
which is over the main stair what what
exactly is being done they're taking off
all the sandstone balusters removing all
of the tile all the waterproofing below
and replacing that so building back up
basically new Terrace and the reason
this is being done is because of the
water intrusion which has been going on
for years
you had water coming into the basement
it for years but also recently we saw
some of it coming in above the main
stair all right so let's take a look at
where some of the damage has occurred
okay okay
Marta this is the main stair it splits
off it's gorgeous with all this marble
yes this marble was imported from Italy
okay and who unfortunately this is where
the water intrusion curtain yes we
started to see some problems in this
wall here with flaking and then we did
some investigation open this hole saw
the drain above and realize that this is
related to the water intrusion problem
all right this will all be done in
October yes before it's done can we see
what the sandstone looks like downstairs
on the terrace yes okay all right as we
step onto the terrace I can see all the
work being done tell me what all is
going on well we are actually on the
terrace that's above the music room so
we're off Henry's bedroom and we have
new waterproofing material that's been
installed and then this copper flashing
will also be put in place so I know the
copper flashing is historically
appropriate you're not cutting corners
on this because there are cheaper ways
to go right no we're trying to do a very
thorough job so that this repair will
last for years and years and also be
really true to the intent of the
building was built and I see there are
no railings up here are those sandstone
as well yes those were all sandstone so
those have been removed and they will be
replaced with new sandstone balusters
all right now I don't know if you're
gonna let me do this but I really want
to see Henry shower can we go do that we
can go to yeah yeah all right let's go K
Marta what amazes me is a home a hundred
years old and it has a master bathroom
yes and you see here we have this full
surround shower so you would have had
water coming from above all around you
and even from below so not only was you
forward thinker in planning a master
bathroom but also these type of showers
are coming back in a favor 100 years
later yeah isn't it interesting he was
also a hiker so I think maybe he really
had to get clean alright I just
mentioned the homes a hundred years old
and you're planning a centennial
celebration can you tell me about that
definitely the mansion was completed in
1914 which means that next year is its
centennial year alright so you have some
activities planned tell me about them
yes we're really excited we have a
number of things that we're going to do
to improve the visitor experience here
so update the exhibits and make them a
little bit more interactive we're also
going to open in February with 10 free
days to the public which we great and
then we have some other things that will
be going on throughout the year
throughout the year so people can come
and if it's not one of the free days
what are they going to spend to come in
here it'll be 99 50 for adults okay nine
fifty for adults and I got to tell you
that the music room here is one of my
favorites because there's an 1887
Steinway that I'm dying to play I'm
guessing you not gonna let me do that
actually I think I could it is original
to the Pittock family so one of the
daughters both the daughters were
trained in music and one of them played
the piano so that is the original piano
which is really great to have all right
Marta Bowness thank you so much for
giving us a guided tour and we want to
thank you for being on Comcast
newsmakers for the crew here at Comcast
I'm Ken Ackerman make it a great day
ever